>> BUTCHER: ...or evening, wherever you are.
And welcome to Android Developer Office Hours.
This is your chance to come and ask us the
Android Developer relations team.
And we've also guests from the Google TV Developer
Relations team.
Any questions you'd like about developing
Android applications.
We, as usual, won't be covering any product
announcements or speculating on any future
releases.
So, don't waste time your answering--asking
those questions.
But do ask us as any and all Android Developer
questions.
So, who do we have here?
We have--I'm joined on my left by Rich Hyndman.
>> HYNDMAN: Hi there.
>> BUTCHER: And Matt Gaunt.
And in the room we have Al Sutton as always.
>> SUTTON: Hi guys.
>> BUTCHER: Hello.
And is that Todd on there on the right?
>> HYNDMAN: Are we okay?
Andrew Kelly the one-man moderator machine.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: Looks like London have dropped
out on us.
>> The London [INDISTINCT]
>> SUTTON: Welcome back, guys.
>> [INDISTINCT]
>> HYNDMAN: It goes well for the rest of this.
I was trying to work with chat window.
>> BUTCHER: What is that?
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
It is open this time and welcome to Andrew
Kelly again.
>> [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Oh, feedback.
>> HYNDMAN: Now we have feedback.
Okay.
Ignoring the feedback, it seems to have been
muted now.
>> GAUNT: So, news--well, while we wait for
a few people to join us, what news is there?
Google Play Services has finally launched.
It's no longer next week as we've been saying
for a little while.
So has anyone had the chance to check that
out yet?
>> SUTTON: Not yet.
Nope.
>> HYNDMAN: Well, yeah.
I mean I read the blog post.
Does that kind of [INDISTINCT] me down.
I'm really looking forward to writing my first
play services based application using the
[INDISTINCT] and being able to log in to the
services...
>> HYNDMAN: Plus one button and of course
that's going to affect the plus one of your
application in the Play Store and that might
affect your ranking, who knows?
Let's see plus one button's inside out.
But there's also like many other things designed
for you.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
We most recently--a hacker phone where lots
of people are trying to access Google Drive,
and it was quite painful trying to get--perhaps
use the web view to get your non-anonymous
I guess and just to go [INDISTINCT] of two
tokens.
They nab you there really easily with a really
consistent user experience through Google
Play Services so yeah, I'm looking forward
to seeing some apps integrate those.
>> SUTTON: Is the place of--is this library
going to be supported on Google TV as well?
>> GAUNT: I believe it will be.
But that will probably come with the native
Google Play Store, which is coming.
>> SUTTON: Next week?
>> GAUNT: Next week.
Yeah, next week.
Everything happens next week.
>> BUTCHER: Mañana.
Mañana.
>> SUTTON: Cool.
>> BUTCHER: Is that a Chris Banes we had just
pop in?
Hi there, Chris.
>> BANES: Hi guys.
>> BUTCHER: Welcome.
>> BANES: Oh God, hang on.
>> GAUNT: Timing.
>> SUTTON: Someone probably telling you you're
in the Hangout.
>> BANES: Oh, yeah, maybe.
>> BUTCHER: You had a busy day.
[INDISTINCT] so you updated a bunch of your
libraries?
>> BANES: Yeah.
Just--I took about all of September off, so
I have just been messing around for the whole
September.
So, yes.
It's [INDISTINCT]
>> TODD: Pretty cool.
>> BANES: Yeah.
So that's fun.
Do some housekeeping.
>> BUTCHER: Nice.
>> BANES: Pack some stuff.
>> BUTCHER: Fun.
>> BANES: Yeah, it's because it is.
>> GAUNT: Okay.
So we have a question from Andrew.
>> HYNDMAN: And so--is the chat window ready?
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
Does Google Play Services allow posting to
Google+ or is it an API still coming soon?
Still coming soon.
>> GAUNT: As far as I'm aware, Google+ allows
you to post something to someone's timeline
but it's essentially you're posting it to
no one.
It's not public or anything.
And then you have to select the circle like
these and you have to go into Google+ to do
it, but even though you think that's Google
Play Services that's just Google+.
>> BUTCHER: You're talking about the by the
history API.
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> BUTCHER: So it's essentially a bit like
having some upload work.
So you can send stuff to somewhere which is
just owned by you.
And then from there, easily share it later
on if you want.
But, I don't think that's all up and running
yet.
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: No I wanted to check that because
it's definitely mentioned in the Play Services
documentation but I think it's just coming
soon to get into the stream.
>> GAUNT: Okay.
>> HYNDMAN: So the only sharing is via the
plus one button right now, I think.
>> SUTTON: As far as where the history API
is still developing previews.
So they're still tying that down so it's not
worth using in production apps until the things
are stabilized a bit I would guess.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
I would guess as well.
They've been in communication with [INDISTINCT]
let's do it, right?
It's getting rolled out to all devices Froyo
[INDISTINCT] it's mute.
What else has happened this week then?
We're talking about tablets this week.
This is week is tablet week on--for all the
shows on the Android Developer Network which
is coming real soon, at developers.google.com/live/android.
So Reto and Ian and the guys from America
will be [INDISTINCT] redesigning Google Apps
and we're...
>> BUTCHER: Done.
>> HYNDMAN: ...specifically making--are prone
to using the word tablet in this show, so
we can feel included in the Mountain View
Program as well.
>> BUTCHER: I'm holding a Tablet.
>> HYNDMAN: Tablet.
This one here too.
I bet you wondered what that was.
And hopefully the audio quality is improved
this week.
We've got a brand new microphone.
Previously, our microphone was poor.
If you have issues with the audio quality
just let us know and we'll try and fix it
but it's this little puppy that we've got
here, I kind of want to show you, but we'll
leave it out.
>> BUTCHER: So before we dive into moderator
key, does anyone have any questions now or
anything you want to talk about?
>> BANES: No.
Put them in.
>> GAUNT: Cool.
Moderator it is.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
>> BUTCHER: And yeah, we should also explain
Sparky is not here.
>> HYNDMAN: Uh-hmm.
>> BUTCHER: It is a public holiday in Germany.
It's apparently not tied to Octoberfest, apparently
not.
>> GAUNT: No way.
No.
>> HYNDMAN: That's right.
>> GAUNT: Definitely not.
>> HYNDMAN: No.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: The fact that it wasn't [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, yeah.
He's not around so, next week.
>> HYNDMAN: I don't remember what it was tied
to.
I think.
>> BANES: Berlin wall, wasn't it?
>> HYNDMAN: Was it?
>> BANES: The wall coming down I think.
>> [INDISTINCT]
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
On to the moderator.
>> BUTCHER: Go for Rich.
>> HYNDMAN: Hello.
>> BUTHCHER: Hi.
>> HYNDMAN: Hey, Andre, from Germany.
I hope you're watching even though it's a
public holiday.
I want to use set preferred network type method
to switch between 2G and 3G.
I don't think however--available to public.
I'm guessing this is apparently, however it's
not available to the public.
Is there an alternative to support [INDISTINCT]
network?
I personally don't think so.
I've looked into this before for the battery
widget.
People have asked how did you switch to 2G.
And once we were in an airport, maybe in the
Czech Republic somewhere, where we wanted
to limit our data, and we were writing an
app to toggle between 2G and 3G to save battery
life at the time, which probably is the [INDISTINCT]
and we didn't find a way.
We are just sending the user to the network
setting screens [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Because they don't have a way
of doing it, yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: It's a secure setting, but it's
not...
>> [INDISTINCT]
>> HYNDMAN: Thank you to everyone, who just
muted us in time.
So thank you Andre, but I think not.
>> BUTCHER: So yeah.
One of these secure--is it secure setting
or is it just in another?
I think it's a secure setting.
>> BANES: That's true, yes.
That's right.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, it's in a model of their
own.
Yeah.
So unless your signature system--so unless
you kind of have access to that [INDISTINCT]
so unless you're probably getting wrong [INDISTINCT]
>> HYNDMAN: Yup.
>> BUTCHER: Next.
>> HYNDMAN: Uh-huh.
Right.
So this is from Adicha from Fairfax, Virginia.
>> BUTCHER: Hi.
>> HYNDMAN: Hey.
My app has a feature where users can upload
documents or pictures.
When I try accessing attachments and emails
that are not downloaded, the URI object has
the scheme of content.
Is there a way to convert these URI objects
that have a scheme of file?
You would almost certainly need to go to the
content provider, that that scheme of content
is pointing to and try and get it from the
content provider.
We have a post on this for getting Picasa
images from the Gallery.
So if you do the image chooser and Gallery
comes up.
And instead of choosing a photograph that
they've taken on a camera, they choose a photograph
that was in Picasa...
>> BUTCHER: Uh-hmm.
>> HYNDMAN: ...again, you get the content
URI.
And you need to go to the content result to
get that in.
So you won't be able to resolve it to a file
directly but you'll be able to get hold of
the content through its respective provider.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
Basically it's content a provider and get
a file that's script to that kind of image.
You can then pick the stuff up.
>> HYNDMAN: Yup.
So have a look at that and search for retrieving
Picasa images from Gallery as well because
it's definitely a more detailed post with
the details that's good on that and they will
[INDISTINCT] your eyes.
We get that quite at a lot from companies
that have photo editing applications, things
like that.
They don't expect selected images to come
back as a content URI, expect files.
>> BUTCHER: It's one of those things that
you look for in application as well its ability
to read all kinds of contents shared to it.
So when I often find people falling about
all of this, when you try and attach a photo
or upload a photo and it's coming from a Picasa
gallery, rather than, you know, a local image,
and so yeah, it's really, really is a good
practice to be able to handle every single
content--or every form of URI you get passed
back.
It works on tablets.
>> HYNDMAN: Anyway, that was--that was--that
was good.
Keep throwing the ball back.
We've got one question up here in the G+,
asking when Google devices will be available
in Ukraine.
And as per the announcement at the start of
the show, we'd probably have a lot more viewers
if we could talk about that kind of thing,
but we can't.
Oh.
>> BUTCHER: And there's more chat in the side
bar going about 2G and 3G.
>> HYNDMAN: There's no, yeah, we can't talk
about potential [INDISTINCT] but I don't know
about it anyway.
Chris, can [INDISTINCT] okay.
They're just chatting amongst themselves.
>> BUTCHER: Just generally, like the discussion
is going really--I was basically saying someone
really wants to be able to control 2G, 3G
settings to save battery.
I kind of think that's the domain of like
the user's choice.
Like the user can choose that and they can
set that for the settings.
I mean, it's one thing if you want to give
it a lesson in saying, you know, if your apps
related to the battery.
Maybe you like to be shown battery levels
and have a link out to take you to the page
where you can change the setting, that's one
thing.
But you probably don't want to be going and
even if you could just changing the setting
under them because that's kind of--well, it's
kind of what your app does but it sounds like
it might be an unexpected behavior there.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
If you're battery's running low, would you
like to blah, blah, blah, go to the network
settings.
I know a good battery widget that enables
you to do that.
>> BUTCHER: Ian.
>> HYNDMAN: Battery.
>> BUTCHER: The battery widget.
>> HYNDMAN: The battery widget that needs
a redesign.
Works on tablets, though.
How do I animate on the expanding collapse
event of an ExpandableListView?
I would look at the API for ExpandableListView
and see if [INDISTINCT] right the animation
events.
Usually it's on the...
>> BUTCHER: I don't know that trick.
>> HYNDMAN: No, I don't know this trick either.
>> GAUNT: No, I don't.
>> BUTCHER: Do you anyone who used ExpandableListView?
>> BANES: I have, but I never change the animation.
Let's have a quick look.
>> SUTTON: Most of the time the animation
tends to be, although the default animation
tends to be quite quick and it probably would
annoy users to slow that down any amount because
it's nice once or twice to see a fancy animation.
That's always good.
You make sure you get the data to the user
as quickly as possible.
>> HYNDMAN: They want something quicker.
>> BUTCHER: Yes.
Okay.
>> BANES: Yeah, expanding is just in [INDISTINCT]
no scroll, so you can't change it.
>> BUTCHER: All right.
>> BANES: I'm looking at the source code
>> BUTCHER: So, again--so, your options are...
>> HYNDMAN: That's right.
>> BUTCHER: ...to make--create your own.
I guess you could...
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
>> BUTCHER: ...subparse it and if you want
it to do your own behavior there.
>> HYNDMAN: That or you could always go...
>> BUTCHER: Then you could toy around special
media when you think about it, if that's what
you really want to do.
>> HYNDMAN: Let's have a look back on the
thread.
>> BUTCHER: So, we got a few more new joiners.
Say hello to Paul--and Paul and Richard who've
joined us.
And I also you got Neil.
So, yeah, feel free to, you know, ask questions
here or type in the side bar or anything.
>> Hi guys.
>> BUTCHER: You were going to send me [INDISTINCT]
for your NFC question.
>> Yes, I've put them up.
I put it and sent it.
I found out your name is Nick Butcher.
I've sent one to Al just as--to see--he said
he might have a look at the service and see
if there's a way of getting to the time out
another way.
Yeah, I did double check the stock over.
I think I put a link on this comment here.
But anyway, if you want me to send again I
can find you out on G+ and do it out there.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
That'd be better.
>> The main thing is, I'm just wondering if
anyone's got any ideas, alternatives to build
so we can demo this.
And where we might be able to find the source,
a quick look in the source around all the
NFC stuff.
But I don't think the constants are in the
Java.
So, I wonder if there's a resource for [INDISTINCT]
relating from, any ideas?
>> SUTTON: There's a class--let me just dig
it out the tag class in android NFC has a
get tag--get tech list method and you can
get a list of technologies that is supported
by the RFC reader from that and parse that
to the get method.
To actually get an instance of the NFC class
for that particular type of tag.
>> Yup.
>> SUTTON: You can then use some manipulation
methods on that tag instance so you set timeout
on that to alter the timeout for that specific
type of technology tag.
>> Okay.
Just to explain.
That works in Gingerbread because you can
set it because you get access--the programs
launch far enough for the code to be run.
In the cases of Ice Cream Sandwich and later,
the sound goes on the file like it doesn't
even reach the breakpoints, or the--or the
code in that stage.
So, I wonder, does it have to change the default
timeout so that it gets--it allows you to
go farther, because in some cases I believe
it's 0.3 of a second.
>> SUTTON: The--I'm just looking at it now.
In the android.nfc.tech package there's an
ISO-DEP class which has the get method which
can get you an instance of that tag class
without actually using the RF radio.
>> Okay.
>> SUTTON: Let me just pop up a link to it
in the chat side bar.
>> Yeah, it would be great.
>> SUTTON: In that you can manipulate the
set timeout on that--the tag that's returned
from that method.
From looking into the code, there is a lot
of source code in the framework banks, but
that's also some in packages apps NFC and
there's a lot of the management code in there.
>> Uh-hmm.
>> SUTTON: From looking at that unless you
close on that tag object you returned by the
get method in...
>> Uh-hmm.
>> SUTTON: ...the ISO-DEP class, the timeout
should stay all the time you're reading tags
of that class.
>> Yes.
I believe the closing would reset the timeout.
And I did one quick test of static tag that
I had set the timeout longer to see if that
worked.
So I just gave it an hour.
Just a long shot.
It didn't seem to work at that moment but
I'm willing to try again.
I'll look just a bit deeper into it.
>> SUTTON: Okay.
I'll put the links to the methods into the
comment section of this Hangout post.
>> Yes.
>> SUTTON: You could grab them from there.
>> Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Cheers.
>> HYNDMAN: Excellent.
Thanks Al.
>> SUTTON: No worries.
>> HYNDMAN: The next moderator question--oh,
Andrew Kelly is looking to chat first.
>> BUTCHER: Andrew asks, what is the star
attribute I need to change to alter the text
color for options menu--option menu items?
I've managed to change the title color but
couldn't see the option menu style.
>> HYNDMAN: This is an action bar--yes.
Or you want to have a look at a post written
by...
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, I never remember these offhand
but there's a handy post.
Hopefully if you've seen the post over on
the Android Developers blog, if you asked,
yes, he says.
And the--have you looked in the attached--where
the links code project.
So, if you look in the styles file and the
code project there, it should give you the
attribute you need to override.
>> HYNDMAN: That's it.
>> BUTCHER: I forgot.
>> HYNDMAN: I've been [INDISTINCT] everything
else but not actual text.
You want text color?
>> BUTCHER: Oh, right, so change it, okay.
>> HYNDMAN: So, it's...
>> BUTCHER: I forget it all the time, I cover
it up.
>> HYNDMAN: Did you try Android column text
color?
>> BUTCHER: The way I--the way I--I've worked
out which ones to change, I always end up
just looking in the original theme stars.
If you look in your android home/platforms/whatever
the platform/data value there's the stars
and themes xml, just--they're not particularly
long.
And they're, you know, if you're not too scared
about xml, they're fairly readable.
So, you go in there and you kind of search
for like action bar, options and stuff like
that.
And you kind of walk it back up towards and
find out which star it inherits from and you
find kind of the value you can override, that's
the way I always end up doing it.
So, sorry I don't know offhand.
>> HYNDMAN: It may not be separately styled
to the actual text or the action bar.
Interesting to see if there is...
>> BUTCHER: It's probably [INDISTINCT] a default
one, yeah.
It might just be something like color or text
color they, might be willing to try again.
>> GAUNT: Uh-hmm.
>> BUTCHER: And there we go.
>> HYNDMAN: Cheers Andrew.
>> BUTCHER: Do you not have an iPhone friend
Andrew, or you're just shy.
Okay silence.
>> HYNDMAN: Sammy from Pittsburg has quite
a far reaching question.
Which we could do if you're kind of online,
we could talk about.
Because the question is, I have an app idea.
How do I create it perhaps from beginning
to finish?
All right.
So, I guess are you a coder?
Are you looking for people to contract work
for you or you're--I mean, are you a designer?
I don't really know which parts of the role
you could put in yourself but--or you just
want to make money for the idea?
You can just license it to someone without
actually doing anything.
It's quite a wide reaching question.
There's so much to say...
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
So, if you are just, you know, if you know
a bit of writing but never done any Android
before, so a great place to start is on Android
training.
So, if you go to developer--to android.com/training.
There's some basic guides there which talk
you through how to create your first Android
app.
So it kind of--it seems you have a certain
level of knowledge of Java and XNOR and so
on.
So, if you have those then that's a good place
to start.
Beyond that I guess we kind of need a bit
more of context.
>> HYNDMAN: If you just got an idea, I would
start with a piece of paper and a pencil and
start sketching out and start thinking about
how you want the actual application to work
and flow and get excited about the concepts
behind it.
And then you could go to a user group in whatever
technology you want it to be delivered in
and have a talk about just some people at
the user group about it.
I'm sure there's plenty in Pittsburgh.
Yeah, there's just a lot of approaches you
can take.
>> BUTCHER: And step three, profit.
>> HYNDMAN: Step three.
Profit.
Use tablets.
Do an extra large layout.
Okay.
For Rich.
>> BUTCHER: Go for it, read it.
>> HYNDMAN: Go for Rich, because it's one
of those questions we can't answer.
Will all developers on Google Play have reply
to reviews?
I'm sorry we can't talk about things that
aren't already answered.
>> BUTCHER: Has anyone in the room been using--have
access to a bunch of reviews?
Been in their beta?
>> HYNDMAN: Yes.
>> BUTCHER: No.
Okay.
Yes, if you have...
>> HYNDMAN: I have to replied to [INDISTINCT]
calling some battery widget, of course I have.
>> BUTCHER: And it's been good?
Have you seen an uplift in your rating?
>> HYNDMAN: Yes.
No, not particularly, but my latest version
I've got this really weird bug on a Sony Xperia
phone, not Ice Cream Sandwich, with a widget.
And I can't replicate it.
So hey, I've got access to as much [INDISTINCT]
I think they been...
>> BANES: Phone?
>> HYNDMAN: Which is fun.
Some Soniacs and P19i something and then also
on their Walkman device.
>> BUTCHER: The P19i.
>> HYNDMAN: I don't know.
I didn't even know thing existed until someone
reported a bug on it.
I believe it's a called a VGA, and in landscape
mode the widgets are a bit freaky.
Who knows, we'll blacklist it.
Is that a good solution?
>> BUTCHER: So [INDISTINCT]
>> GAUNT: It's the last [INDISTINCT] one.
>> HYNDMAN: Thank you very much for your feedback,
you can no longer use the application.
>> BUTCHER: That's a good reply.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
So someone just posted, so Nick your remarks
in Designer in Action on Tuesdays were very
impressive especially the [INDISTINCT] ones.
>> BUTCHER: Is this the TripAdviser?
>> HYNDMAN: You're not a designer.
>> BUTCHER: First thing.
>> HYNDMAN: What was your secret?
Have you read any books or resources?
How did you get up to the speed with interaction
design in the designs that you've done?
How did you get into this?
Because certainly a year ago you weren't designing
stuff as part of the team and now you're going
to go to designer in our team?
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, how did that happen?
I think you just fake it until you make it
right?
You just--no, I don't know.
I've always be really interested in the UI
design and I think I'm pretty--I've got quite
an attention to detail, I've got quite a good
focus on detail, like I always notice really
small things that are wrong then I think that
probably helps when you're designing stuff.
Because I keep on going over and, you know,
you see how long I spend all these months,
go over and over and over and again until
they get better.
I don't think there's any secret I think I
read a lot on the subject.
So blogs like UI, blog on an Android UI design,
Smashing Magazine, you know, I'm a big fan
of, I read a lot of articles on that.
And practice, I think the more you do it,
the better and easier it gets.
So simple things like learning your tool,
like Photoshop has been quite a--I've looked--I
certainly have used it much, I've used GIMP
a fair then, when I used to create apps, I
used to create all my own assets in the GIMP
and got fairly proficient at that but then
relearning Photoshop because that seems to
be what everyone around here uses so you can
share PSDs and so on like that, it's really
handy.
That's taken me a while, but I think the biggest
thing that's helped me is working with another
designer so there's a UI Team here in London
to do some of the design for the Google Apps
such as Google in-house IT here in London
and so that team's been awesome, they've been
really accommodating to me so I've gone in
there and put them--I've shown them sketches
and talked them through and showed them mocks
and got feedback and going round and round
like that kind of like feedback loop which
has been super helpful to me.
So no secret, just a lot of work, really,
so yes.
I wouldn't call myself a designer yet but
I'm trying to like walk like one, I guess.
>> BANES: Seventy-four of those designs to
try not to divulge any stuff, or these models.
What's sort of the end goal of that consign?
>> BUTCHER: The goal is just to kind of like
increase awareness of like--you know, it's
one thing to talk about what Android design
is, but we think it is better to show it,
it's like half I think...
>> BANES: Yes.
>> BUTCHER: ...the before and after format
is really useful.
It's not so much the goal to have the company
take these mocks and implement them or you
know incorporate some of their elements.
I mean that's amazing but that's a bonus.
It's more to have like a practical insight
into what everyone and their apps can do and
like, you know, how to look at a certain type
of problem and how it might be solved in a
more Android kind of way.
And so if the TripAdvisor won, my colleague
Adam in New York actually works at TripAdvisor.
He said he's going to send them to them so
we're welcome.
In fact, Glimmer, the week before that, where
we did the [INDISTINCT] I was in touch with
him and he's going to fix it, and the PSD.
So he said he going to, you know, use it.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, well in Developers Strike
Back we often say they're going to take a
lot of the team back on board, improve it
design wise and best practices wise.
Thanks a lot.
>> BUTCHER: You're going to take the cameras
here and [INDISTINCT] and incorporate some
data.
>> HYNDMAN: That's [INDISTINCT] service.
If you want another, I chose now.
Get close enough to the moderator, get your
app redesigned.
I don't know, they're complaining from here
that they don't like the design.
>> GAUNT: Basically granting immunity.
>> HYNDMAN: Yes, as long as you implement
it well.
I included someone's design badly once and
they just [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: True story.
>> HYNDMAN: True story.
Andrew Kelly again on the--actually about
theming.
You don't suggest retheming the action drop
down style from the hollow--the hollow light.
The overall hollow light and then you extend
the hollow light and then override the drop
down style and then change the text color,
things like that.
>> BUTCHER: The only thing to look at is if
you're trying to change the text color, generally
the text color is generally determined on
whether you're inheriting from a dark or light
style.
So obviously the dark style has light text
and light style has dark text.
And so if you're trying to change the colors
of the action bar, make sure you're inheriting
them from the correct parent.
So you might even if you have a light theme,
you might want inherit from the theme that
[INDISTINCT] the light the dark action bar
and if you have like a darker accent colors
in your action bar and that will give you
the right text colors so I'm just wondering
of there's a bigger [INDISTINCT] where you're
not inheriting for the right light parents
style.
>> HYNDMAN: Because [INDISTINCT] does say
it's got android.textparents.hollow.widget.popup
but now you got small.
>> BANES: I think that's what the actual style
is in this light platform, I don't know where
it--where that's found from but I'm just finding
the source.
So just backtrack and try to find that webapps
in the theme, I don't know.
It's not here.
>> HYNDMAN: [INDISTINCT] one of those.
>> BUTCHER: Yes, Andrew so which is the parent
theme you're inheriting from?
So you're inheriting from hollow light so
you're therefore getting the dark text style
by default and what's the color--and what's
the color of the--well, I guess the options
may that you're trying to make the text show
against...
>> HYNDMAN: Come on.
Use the hex code.
The custom graphic background.
>> BANES: Should you install a caching bar
then?
>> BUTCHER: That's what I was going to say,
yeah, you inherit from theme.hollow or theme.[INDISTINCT].light.dark
action bar will give you light text.
>> BANES: It could be easier.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
Any more questions from inside the chat, inside
the--Hangout before I jump to the next one.
>> BUTCHER: I know there's a few new joiners
as well, who we got here, we got Richard Thompson
who's trying to come back and Zavi I think
is--with the fun little [INDISTINCT] I'd say
hello to you guys, feel free to shout out
or type away if you got questions like--or
you can just chill out and enjoy the show.
>> SUTTON: Might be worth putting in a plug
for the new build system, that the guys over
at Mountain View have made available.
>> HYNDMAN: Yes, you guys haven't talked.
>> BUTCHER: [INDISTINCT] has anyone's else
listened to you?
>> SUTTON: I've started looking at it but
it's based on--it's a Gradle, so I've got
everything set up to you.
>> BUTCHER: Not linked to an IDE?
>> SUTTON: Nope, it's very [INDISTINCT] at
the moment.
Haven't got LiMP, haven't got PROGIS stuff
like that, but it...
>> BANES: Indica.
>> SUTTON: Hasn't got Indica, yeah.
So it's basically the start of it but it's
case of the earlier you get in the more likely
you are to get the features you want.
So were--if anyone is really interested in
the build system who had been hitting their
head have a look the ADT/DEV Google group
and there'll be details on how to get more
information.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay, Richard Thompson just put
in a chat window, how do you find designers?
There isn't an easily accessible repository
of designers that I know about.
>> BUTCHER: Dribbble.
>> HYNDMAN: You do?
>> GAUNT: Yeah, I was going to say Dribbble.
>> BUTCHER: Dribbble with three Bs that is,
is actually a social network for designers
and they--it has a quite big focus on jobs.
>> BUTCHER: Oh, yeah.
[INDISTINCT] plenty of great design companies
around.
I bump into them at various meetups when I'm
in London or down in Brighton things like
that.
So go to meetups talk to people, have them
look at apps that you like the way they're
designed.
See if you can find out who designed them.
>> BUTCHER: Have a look at the package name
of the Android application that you like the
look of and look up who really made it.
And Tim Boggs who I think asked the wider
range of questions how do you make an app?
This time they did a comment to G+, he says
he needs to write a simple app it just does
some math, but it needs to have a good UI,
as he's been watching Design Hangouts, good
man.
So the question is, any tips on who to get
quotes, where to get it written, he knows
the simple codes but it was taking too long
to learn Java, say something [INDISTINCT]
all right so how do you--well, it sounds like
you--if you're willing to pay for the application
I think it's going to be a commercial affair
then you might want to approach something
like--it's depends, well you're basically
here in London there's a awesome user group
called the London Android user group or Londroid
for short.
So that's a great pool of talented developers
and they have a linked in group which they
like to use for the job approaches.
And so you can approach those guys asks for
some quotes, ask for--see who's around and
what they can offer.
I don't know if it's not a paid app, if you're
trying to like just do this thing for fun
or for charity, or something like that then
that might not work.
Anyway, oh, yes, I just had--the URL for Londroid
is meetup.com/android.
I see they've gotten there early.
Any other ideas?
>> GAUNT: No.
I think that makes a lot sense.
So you're going to get a mix of people who
work for agencies, freelancers.
Yeah, I think Londroid is a good place.
>> BUTCHER: And if it's not invented so doesn't
that get donated to Apache or something like
that?
>> HYNDMAN: Actually.
>> BUTCHER: Isn't that where stuff like that
used to.
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
The...
>> BANES: The Investools.
>> BUTCHER: Say again?
>> BANES: The Investools it wasn't...
>> HYNDMAN: You might say, you got it yeah.
>> BUTCHER: [INDISTINCT]
>> BANES: [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Yes there--yeah, there was a project
called--yeah App inventor which kind of got
donated.
I don't know if it's still useable, which
was kind of that drag and drop type interface
of building applications so if had to pursue
that.
To try and get operators like that up and
running show people around to try and generate
some interest.
And--yeah that's something actually.
If often if you try to get people on-board,
often quite helpful to have a--an interactive
kind of like prototype so you can even do
that with something like App inventor or if
you use something like a Balsamic which is
a mocking tool you can design your mocks in
that and there's often--there's a ton of applications,
if you understand those mocks and how to stick
them together or you can have an interactive
PDF where you have like certain areas of [INDISTINCT]
where you click through and it actually launches
another PDF or another screen in the PDF so
you can--you can do things like that.
>> HYNDMAN: I thought we'd have some good
talks about mocking as well, don't we?
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
From Trovia in Italy.
This is a good question.
I'd like to have a good answer to this question.
Maybe I'll work on it.
To obtain a heterogeneous review, like the
one in Google+, or Pinterest or IM, which
was reviewed last week on the Android show,
should we extend ABS just until you adapt,
do you agree, do you--are there any tutorials
available?
I've been really impressed with some of the
extraneous grid views we've been seen coming
out recently and I've often looked at them,
and wondered quite how they did it, how they're
doing their layouts of all the different grid
items and some are just really good.
So...
>> BUTCHER: So that's not an answer.
>> HYNDMAN: No I said--I was...
>> BUTCHER: I was waiting for--I was waiting
for that, so you...
>> HYNDMAN: Not for that--to all my reviews
have been all very neat and tidy and aligned
and I haven't done anything which--as yet,
looked as good as any of the grid we see right
here.
I don't know.
>> BANES: They must be custom.
>> HYNDMAN: I think they're just going to
be custom as well, yeah.
Loads of custom items.
>> BANES: It's not too difficult to do it.
You just need to know how layout and sizing
works.
Yes, so it's not too bad to do.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, right you still want it
base on adapt--on an adaptive view if possible.
And you want to have asynchronous loading
into the--that thing obviously once you've
got a layout that looks good you still going
to want it to react very smoothly and there's
a lot of that code that we built for you already
for things like previous industries that you
should review--renew sorry.
>> BUTCHER: Yes.
>> HYNDMAN: So whether you can abuse a grid
view and force it into being extraneous, I
don't we can.
There'd have to be many of these grid reviews,
it would be horrible.
I think...
>> BANES: You choose the column size, don't
you?
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, but that--I think column
size is the next row down as well.
You can't do it on a column or a row basis,
right?
>> BUTCHER: I wonder if some of these are
actually individual--this just list view and
each get some types of list item, it's just
subdivided...
>> HYNDMAN: I think there will be [INDISTINCT]
of this view, because everything is at least
the same height on a row basis.
>> GAUNT: Plus the stuff in the list view
were you can say I've got views of multiple
types and then when you recycle it or try
and recycle the view...
>> HYNDMAN: Uh-hmm.
>> BUTCHER: Uh-hmm.
>> GAUNT: ...same types and then it's the
fonts.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, depending on which way you
go...
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: ...I would say if you can squeeze
it into a list view and just a custom list
items inside a list view.
It'll be the simplest way...
>> GAUNT: Uh-hmm.
>> HYNDMAN: ...and you will have a lot of
control over it and you get all the benefits
of...
>> BUTCHER: So no one has solved this problem
yet.
It's an open source heterogeneous list this
view, grid view.
>> Sutton: I can hear Chris cross typing as
we speak.
>> HYNDMAN: It's kind of reflecting in his
glasses.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, it sounds like a problem
[INDISTINCT] work together at all.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, I think we should just [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Huh?
>> HYNDMAN: We could do a grid and list view
[INDISTINCT] best one.
So it wouldn't be totally heterogeneous, you'd
still get rows lines and a [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, if you do, you can go down
the rout of writing your own custom widget
as well.
There was a great talk from Devoxx two years
ago I think from Monkey and [INDISTINCT] they
go over the basics of what Chris is talking
about the layout parses, measuring parses,
it's really, really critical to understand
those ones and especially understand which
one happen often so, you need to be super
efficient and not creating any garbage.
So I would advise you to seek that out.
If you go to parleys.com, is that where all
the Devoxx talk, or just Google Devoxx [INDISTINCT]
creating custom widgets, it will probably
get you there.
>> HYNDMAN: I'm going to have to go blog and
maybe draft something.
>> BUTCHER: Oh, not for now [INDISTINCT]
>> HYNDMAN: You won't without our builder.
It suits--did seem like [INDISTINCT] should
be.
Anyone else got anything in the chat?
Or sorry inside the Hangout before we jump
to something else.
>> Hi guys, can I ask another question please?
>> HYNDMAN: Sure.
>> Last week Nick you said that there was
a--I just missed the talk by someone at Google,
an NFC wiz guy, is there someone I can get
in touch with or who it was you were referring
to at thins time last week.
>> BUTCHER: You're saying you missed the talk,
I just--I think I want to say send me the
link to your question and I'll forward it
onto some of the NFC gurus here, see if they...
>> Okay.
I'll put it on--I'll our it on your--I found
you on Google+, I'll put it on there.
>> BUTCHER: That's good
>> And because I'm doing a lot of research
in this area at the moment, so it would be
handy to kind of follow up a few more things
in more detail.
Thank you very much guys.
Loving the show today.
>> GAUNT: Oh, good.
Oh...
>> BUTCHER: You're welcome.
Thanks for asking good questions.
>> HYNDMAN: Have you seen the latest question
we got in the ++?
>> BUTCHER: No, I haven't really.
>> HYNDMAN: Will you just have a look at the
++.
>> BUTCHER: Oh, from...
>> HYNDMAN: It's from...
>> BUTCHER: ...Mayhem.
>> HYNDMAN: Our good friend of Michael Mahemoff
ex-Googler, Zoogler.
Do you have any [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Hi guys, design question for you.
What do you think about two drop down lists
on the option bar, both forces that will work
together.
Imagine if you had a second voter of the read
status.
So I'm guessing this is related to Michael's
Player FM, is it?
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> BUTCHER: They're podcasting that...
>> HYNDMAN: Uh-hmm.
>> BUTCHER: ...at a podcasting website.
What about if you're making a--yes I can think
of situations in fact I think Gallery--initially
when Gallery came out on Honeycomb, it had
two drop downs that you can spin between photos
and videos and then sort between something
else.
>> HYNDMAN: Tell them something...
>> BANES: [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, but I think they removed
it.
>> HYNDMAN: I can't think of any--there are
a few attempts on the filters at the top.
>> BUTCHER: I'm just trying to think about
this.
>> HYNDMAN: I'm trying to think of one that
I can point to you right now that might--you
could quite use.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, [INDISTINCT] fell free to
send us a mock if you--if you got any sketches
of what it's going to look like.
I'd probably try and avoid it, like it sounds
quite--it's quite hard to understand at a
glance perhaps.
It depends like who invented it.
Like how--if the two sets are like not overlapping
then it might be simpler, whereas if you know,
if you had to change one first and it alters
what's in the second list for example then,
it's going to be quite hard for it to actually
[INDISTINCT] upon change.
You might call if it's anything like a, you
know, like a filters button which actually
reveals either subsequent control or a dialogue...
>> GAUNT: Hey, he's in the chat.
>> BUTCHER: Here he is.
How are you doing Mike?
It seems like he's behind and catching up.
>> Yeah, he is.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, yeah, yeah, thanks.
Thanks to Al actually for letting me in here.
>> Well...
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, I mean basically its pretty
similar sort of analogy to Gmail, right?
Because basically the idea is to try to use
it as a kind of a download manager.
So instead of having a download manager you
could just filter on--sorry [INDISTINCT] going
here?
>> HYNDMAN: It's okay.
No it's okay.
Carry on, we can hear you.
It's fine.
>> MAHEMOFF: Just wait here, if I'm just going
to [INDISTINCT] but yeah, it's basically that.
So it's--you can see downloads data, so you
can run filter which would probably be just
be an icon and on any other one of the labels,
tags sort of thing.
>> BUTCHER: So you thought about following
the Gmail example.
So having the kind of label type button at
the bottom?
>> HYNDMAN: I don't think he heard--I don't
think he's plugged his head phones in.
No he can't hear us.
>> BANES: No.
>> HYNDMAN: Mike.
Mike.
>> MAHEMOFF: I know, seeing that--oh yeah
okay.
That's--but not really actually because I've
got--I've got the constraint of having something
else, a player at the bottom so, I'm trying
to keep it simpler.
Hello?
>> BUTCHER: The idea being that you click
a button which takes you to a subsequent screen
which lets you then, you know, have a full
screen pick of what data you're trying to
display.
>> HYNDMAN: It has.
>> BUTCHER: Wow, it's got crazy delay.
>> HYNDMAN: Three, two one and...
>> BANES: Could you even do that [INDISTINCT]
wise?
>> MAHEMOFF: Because...
>> BANES: Just in action bars [INDISTINCT]
>> MAHEMOFF: I'm sorry can you say that--I'm
sorry I'm having some massive--I seem to be
having some massive audio in-synching, just...
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, we can tell...
>> MAHEMOFF: ...I'm sorry.
Nick can you repeat that?
>> HYNDMAN: Oh, you're listening to his on
our podcast?
>> BUTCHER: I'll repeat it.
Okay.
So I was just saying is it possible to just
have a button which launches the full screen
so that you pick the slices of data that you
want to view rather that having it all on
screen at once.
I mean that's kind of inappropriate.
>> MAHEMOFF: No.
Okay.
Yeah, it's just that I--I think that I keep
hearing myself but.
>> BUTCHER: Okay.
This is weird.
>> HYNDMAN: I think he just left from the
podcast room.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, maybe we should come back
to this one.
It's just--we're being a little bit, kind
of...
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah, right.
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> MAHEMOFF: Okay.
You know, sorry, sorry, guys.
I'm just having some trouble here with the--I
keep hearing myself at the same time so I'm
just...
>> BUTCHER: Yeah let's [INDISTINCT]
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, basically--I mean the--yeah,
yeah.
I'll leave it, you know, I'll leave it.
Sorry I'm having some trouble with the audio.
>> BUTCHER: No worries.
It's all good.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
>> BUTCHER: So we were talking about--anything
else?
I thought there was another question.
>> HYNDMAN: We could start the next question,
that was...
>> BUTCHER: There was a question in the--in
the G+ posted from Adir, who looks a lot like
Johnny Depp, asks whether you can put an action
bar at the bottom and as it's stupid to have
it at the top.
That's right.
>> GAUNT: Bold statement.
>> BUTCHER: So, no.
By default you cannot control the placement
of the action bar.
You can go into split mode where it will be
at the top and bottom when the device is narrow,
but you can't actually control where it's
placed.
You cloud certainly create a custom control
which looks a bit like an action bar but it's
at the bottom, but that is your choice.
As to whether it's stupid or not, I almost
think that's less important because it's mostly--you'll
use it for its familiarity.
So that users recognize it and know how to
use it.
So, whether you think it's stupid or not,
it's one thing, you know, open for a discussion
with I guess, Rich Fulcher and all the design
people who created it.
But right now it's such an important as standard
element of your--in your tool box that I would--wouldn't
deviate from it unless you have really good
reasons.
>> Do you mind if I say something?
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
Oh, that's Adir, hi.
>> I'm Adir by the way.
>> BUTCHER: Hi.
>> That picture is nothing.
Anyway, the reason I said the word--I'm sorry
I used stupid because I wrote the question
several times and it didn't save.
I really have no idea how this happened.
I elaborated and explained and every time
I refresh the page, the question disappeared.
So the last time was just really--this one
just stayed, I don't know why.
>> HYNDMAN: All right.
>> Anyway, what I meant by it was the--I have
a Galaxy Note and it's pretty much impossible
to touch the action bar that's on the top
and most new apps now use that action bar
and it's very hard for me to reach there because
I can't hold it with one hand use the buttons
up there.
But if the buttons were on the bottom like
a--with the split one, it's a lot easier to
use the buttons that are in the bottom because
I don't need to reach all the way to the top.
>> BUTCHER: Yes, I agree that some phones
are getting really, really big and--but do
you know--can you even use it?
The Galaxy Note one-handed, like, is that
possible?
>> Yes.
In most old apps--all the old apps, the one
they took from Gingerbread that didn't update
themselves are very easy to use because all
the buttons are hidden in the menu and the
menu is normally at the bottom of the phone.
So I don't--the Galaxy Note has the menu button
unlike the Nexus and other new phones, you
can just hit the menu and they pop up--they
pop at the bottom so it's very easy.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> The top is normally just for information.
I just look at the top, I don't need to touch
it.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> So it doesn't matter.
And I intend to get the Note 2 so it's going
to be even harder.
>> BUTCHER: Oh.
At the risk of saying you're holding it wrong
kind of question--answer.
It's--no, I think it's the general direction
of Android that, you know, have--a lot of
devices have these soft buttons at the bottom
of their phone, so generally having your controls
right next to those is problematic in itself
because you can then have missed touches where
you're touching the--kind of the system home
and back buttons rather than the in app controls.
So, I generally think separating away from
that is good.
But I do agree that some of these bigger phones
could be hard and I don't really have good
answer for what to do about actions but I'd
say this is what is really important to have
swipe on tabs as well whenever you have a
tabbed in space because it's very--it's not
[INDISTINCT]
>> I understand.
Thank for your time.
>> BUTCHER: Mike, so you joined us.
Mike, are you in real time?
>> MAHEMOFF: Yes.
Sorry about that.
I actually had the double whammy of not only
leaving the YouTube video on but not having
the audio in the Hangout because I normally
record my podcast using a Hangout and I had
it piped into Soundflower.
So I was hearing like one perfect audio just
ten seconds off.
>> BUTCHER: Oh, indeed.
>> HYNDMAN: Wonderful.
I'm glad it's sorted out now.
I was...
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, yeah, sorry guys.
So just to explain again, basically--I mean
the idea is to have one sort of set of tags
in one drop down and a kind of--initially
it would just be an icon in the action bar
which if you opened it up that you would see
the different statuses like whether it's downloading
or downloaded or so on which gets you around
the traditional downloading manager interface.
>> BUTCHER: Sorry, we just had a system update
on screen.
I was wondering why you went quiet for a second.
>> MAHEMOFF: So I was trying to get around
the download manager kind of concept by basically
making a whole thing--a set of filters, if
you like, by adding an extra filter for download
status.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
So my worries about having them next to each
other is that--it's kind of a bit hard to
parse this.
It might look a bit complicated.
Could you just have like one in the drop down
and one like in line in the control itself--in
the screen itself?
>> MAHEMOFF: It's a little tricky because
down the bottom, we've got a player at the
moment in the design so it's a little hard
to add some extra--it's just, you know, trying
to avoid adding an extra...
>> BUTCHER: Well, not necessarily on the bottom
but like a row underneath.
>> MAHEMOFF: Second row below the action bar?
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, for like a search control
to...
>> GAUNT: Could you...
>> MAHEMOFF: Could do.
I mean we're trying to avoid it because we've
also got tabs as well.
>> BUTCHER: All right.
>> GAUNT: Could you have a view pager or something
to sort of swipe through the different statuses.
>> BUTCHER: Well you've got tabs already.
>> GAUNT: Oh.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah.
I mean that's a--it's actually kind of separate
question because I would like to have a view
pager to tab between different entities, you
know, effectively labeled, so genres, but
I don't know.
It seems like with tabs what you want to do
is just swipe between tabs.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
Definitely.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah.
>> BUTCHER: And especially if you have a list
of similar things, like, different views or
different data, then, yeah, that works really
well with tabs--with swiping tabs.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah.
>> Butcher: And...
>> HYNDMAN: Marie is trying to give some feedback
as well.
>> BUTCHER: Oh, yeah?
>> HYNDMAN: Let's hear it.
>> BUTCHER: Marie says, hello, we can help.
Two drop downs, have no different weight.
Good is a simple structure.
If you have a different logical structure
like a grid view on menu on the top and a
drop down inside it would be easier.
>> MAHEMOFF: Right.
A grid view or menu view on top.
>> BUTCHER: So, can you just describe the
problem again?
So you have a list of podcasts and you want
to have different ways to slice that by downloaded
versus downloading and then...
>> MAHEMOFF: Yes.
>> BUTCHER: ...all...
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, the kind of status as well
as like arrows and so on so you could quickly
see, you know what's actually arrowed...
>> BUTCHER: Uh-hmm.
>> MAHEMOFF: ...and then the genres basically.
Okay.
I--I'm just trying to wonder if you can like
have one...
>> HYNDMAN: I think...
>> BUTCHER: ...complete controls somehow.
>> HYNDMAN: With your Music Player's view
of having the genres split horizontally by--like
a view pager or in tabs so you have all the
podcasts and you can swipe for genre one,
swipe for that--and then at the top you just
have one drop-down to filter.
>> MAHEMOFF: Right, different status...
>> HYNDMAN: All of the things...
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, I mean that is a possibility.
I have to look at that if you could--I mean
how would the users discover what's actually
there because I like the idea of being something
like Google+ or, you know...
>> HYNDMAN: Oh, you have--you have them at
the top so they can see which genres they
go...
>> MAHEMOFF: I see.
>> HYNDMAN: ...on the top bar.
>> MAHEMOFF: And then the tabs would still
be...
>> HYNDMAN: They tap the tabs.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah.
Yeah, I mean it is possible the only thing...
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
>> MAHEMOFF: [INDISTINCT] potentially tabs
inside there as well.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
>> MAHEMOFF: We could potentially get around
that but I see what you mean and then the
tabs would potentially be able to scroll as
well like you wouldn't have to fill all the
tabs...
>> HYNDMAN: Yes.
And if you look at the Music Player on--for
Android...
>> BUTCHER: Or the Play Store is the same--similar
as well.
>> HYNDMAN: Or the Play Store, yeah.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> MAHEMOFF: Okay.
>> HYNDMAN: Might as well...
>> BUTCHER: So you could...
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, you could--you could also,
you know, you--by default, go into an all
view so you can see all your podcasts but
then you can swipe across to go into genres.
>> MAHEMOFF: Okay.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah.
I mean just in terms of--I mean is the actual
drop down, it sounds like you guiding me against
it right?
Like it's just kind of unstandard and...
>> BUTCHER: Double drop down, yeah, I would--I
don't like the sound of it.
>> HYNDMAN: It's probably--yeah, actually
you have to make your own custom action bar
as well.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, okay.
Okay.
That's a good--that's a good overview.
Thanks.
>> HYNDMAN: Oh, cheers, Mike.
Good to see you.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, type some sketches on Plus
and we'll have a conversation.
>> MAHEMOFF: All right.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, definitely.
It sounds like a good plan.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
>> BUTCHER: How are we doing?
Got any more questions?
>> HYNDMAN: We do have more questions.
>> BUTCHER: And thanks Marie as well for chiming
in.
>> HYNDMAN: Thank you Marie.
>> MAHEMOFF: Yeah, thank you.
>> HYNDMAN: All right.
Let's see if we do.
Slightly strange question, maybe just skip
it.
>> BUTCHER: Go ahead.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
One of the development features from Jelly
Bean and Ice Cream Sandwich used for, for
building [INDISTINCT] applications.
It would be nice if you could provide codes
to fit some examples.
I guess NFC would be useful for that set of
applications.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: A very specific question.
I mean you can do anything you want in Android--that's
why I said we should skip it.
>> BUTCHER: I mean I interpret that as a lot
of people want to create kind of kiosk type
applications, I was wondering if it's that,
where you, you know, you don't have the home
and back and reset button switch out the application,
I mean I was if that was the real question
at hand here so...
>> HYNDMAN: I'll tell you the best way of
doing that.
Put it in a case where it comes with a home,
back and reset button.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: And think with any functionality
you want this idea of--like we did in that
magazine recently.
>> BUTCHER: Uh-hmm.
>> HYNDMAN: Which magazine was it?
>> BUTCHER: Entertainment Weekly.
>> HYNDMAN: Entertainment Weekly, where they
embedded an Android device inside--in between
the pages, but you could just see the screen
so you wouldn't really know.
People often ask actually how can they lock
down Android to use in controlling inside
house lighting controls, whatever it's going
to be and without changing the phoneware,
the easiest way is to put in a custom housing
so you can't actually get to the buttons.
>> BUTCHER: There was an app in there if you
have root access you can hide the system bar
and have...
>> HYNDMAN: If you have root access, you can
do that kind of stuff, yeah.
>> BUTCHER: Seeing that--so that could be
an option if you're doing a kiosk solution
>> HYNDMAN: Or go and play with the AOSP.
Have a word [INDISTINCT] about the AOSP on
how to customize it and build it yourself
and go down that route.
But if you have actual devices just change
the housing then.
Okay, onwards.
>> BUTCHER: Anymore live questions in the
room?
We should turn on the moderator key.
>> Nick, it's Paul here, it's not about a
question.
It's just that I checked my notes from last
week and you've mentioned a guy called Trevor
at Mountain View Time, does that ring any
bells?
>> BUTCHER: We did that.
Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: Oh, we did.
That was during...
>> That was during the...
>> BUTCHER: Last week.
>> HYNDMAN: During Mobile World Congress.
I said that he wrote an application to read
the patches...
>> BUTCHER: Patches.
>> HYNDMAN: ...at Mobile World Congress.
>> Okay.
>> HYNDMAN: So, you can put on the Android
scan and scan people's patches using NFC,
so he gained quite a bit of NFC experience
at the time.
He hosts the Developer Office Hours in the
Mountain View Time Zone.
>> Uh-hmm.
Right.
>> HYNDMAN: It's eight hours from now, 10:00
PM UK Time.
They have their Office Hours.
So...
>> Do you know what his surname is?
>> BUTCHER: Trevor Johns.
>> HYNDMAN: Trevor Johns.
Yeah.
He's on code.google.com/team, all of our bios
and everything and G+ pages are listed there.
>> Okay.
>> HYNDMAN: Google.com/team, which runs very
well on tablets I've heard.
>> Thank you, guys.
>> BUTCHER: No worries.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
Yeah.
But you can definitely post the same question
to the US Time Zone and you will get a--probably
a more expert answer.
>> Cheers.
>> SUTTON: I think we've got one of London's
famous freezes again.
>> I'm here, Al.
>> SUTTON: Who was that?
I'm sorry.
I didn't...
>> It's Paul.
>> SUTTON: Hi, Paul.
>> I think everyone else has gone frozen.
>> SUTTON: I can see some people still moving
around.
It's just the London guys who--I think they're
missing a slot, so I'm going to drop out and
that should give them a slot to rejoin in.
>> Okay.
>> HYNDMAN: And we're back.
>> Hello.
>> MAHEMOFF: Dropped out again, so that...
>> HYNDMAN: Thanks.
Nice.
>> BUTCHER: Thanks.
>> HYNDMAN: [INDISTINCT]
>> We can hear you.
>> HYNDMAN: Cool.
Thank you very much.
>> GAUNT: There's Al.
>> HYNDMAN: Al, being very gracious again
this week.
Cheers, Al.
>> SUTTON: No problem.
>> HYNDMAN: [INDISTINCT] is required.
So we do have a question that we've answered
before.
I am executing an AsyncTask inside an object
intended to be part of a library.
Actually, maybe that's a slightly different
variant, I'm sorry.
Still, how can I deal with orientation changes?
Because as we know, orientation changes on
Android are going to kill your activity and
restart it.
But if you're in a library, it's a slightly
different question.
I wonder.
>> BUTCHER: Why you have to be quiet?
>> HYNDMAN: You have to be quiet because you're
in a library.
Nice.
Yeah.
You have to be--I mean you're not--not necessarily
have the activities but you have to be--plus
you're using your library to make sure that
they might have orientation changes in keeping
your space, and things like that.
So, if you're using an AsyncTask inside a
library and you don't know what context your
library is being used in, it's going to be
much harder.
So I think...
>> GAUNT: I think you.
>> HYNDMAN: It would be...
>> GAUNT: You can't really.
You either have to...
>> SUTTON: You'd have to do it in the service,
wouldn't you?
And then...
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
>> SUTTON: ...just say to the developer that
you've got to include in their manifest, so
that the service can be fired off whenever.
>> HYNDMAN: A service would be a much lighter
thing to do.
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: Or use a Loader.
>> BUTCHER: Or as I say, extend the AsyncTaskLoader
as well because that will handle the orientation
change for you.
>> HYNDMAN: Well...
>> BUTCHER: As well as an AsyncTask.
>> HYNDMAN: Certainly, I think you've answered
the question yourself inside the question.
I don't use AsyncTask inside libraries when
you don't have a context tab, you're just
going to use it like that.
You'd have to be very specific to the use.
You don't have to implement your library or
they'll be seeing issues all over the place.
[INDISTINCT]
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: But I am surprised it hasn't come
up earlier actually.
Saying that, I thought we've answered it before.
It is a--slightly more interesting slant to
the AsyncTask issue.
Okay.
Anything else coming in on the...
>> BUTCHER: No.
>> HYNDMAN: ...G+ thread.
It's only four minutes to go and we'll have
a final question.
Last four minutes.
Of course, we've just spent four minutes saying
the word tablet.
>> BUTCHER: Okay.
Are we done with the--oh no, we've done it
all.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
Oh, damn it.
There's a lot of pages.
I'm sure the other pages are questions that
we've answered.
My device has a screen...
>> BUTCHER: Sparky got that...
>> HYNDMAN: ...that doesn't matter, sir.
I know, after you're done it's all...
>> SUTTON: Have you ever found out who done
it, Rich?
Or did you just miss that last page?
>> HYNDMAN: So, we've answered all of the
questions except the ones on the last page.
We have to--my device screen has a resolution
of 800 by 480 and an HDMI connector.
How do I get a full HD res in all apps when
I plug it to full HD monitor with an HDMI
cable while connecting it to monitor with
apps screen around 800 by 480 but films are
in full HD.
Well...
>> BUTCHER: Great.
>> HYNDMAN: Okay.
That's...
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
By default, an Android just is mirroring,
so it will just do--mirror what's on your
screen, so you get the same screen resolution
on Android except--so there's the special
case where a video could use, which will do
something funky.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
It's going to be hard where overlaying stuff
isn't going over the HDMI.
There's nothing you can do about it, and certainly
no APIs.
Nick was looking at different ways of detecting
when HDMI cables are being plugged in but--yeah.
You can't actually change what's going through.
>> BUTCHER: A question in [INDISTINCT] and
Andrew Kelly asks can HDMI mirroring be disabled?
That's quite--I was looking at this issue.
There's no platform level way of doing it.
There's--certain OEMs include APIs, so Motorola
has an API for detecting the HDMI state and
reacting accordingly, and other people do
as well.
There is a event--a broadcast event that happens
when HDMI cables plugged in and out but it's
currently hidden for good reasons, I assume.
So like you can't rely on that always being
there.
>> HYNDMAN: Yup.
[INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: So for now, there's not a great
story.
>> HYNDMAN: How can I get screen-captured
film device with 25 to 30 frames per seconds
in my computer?
>> BUTCHER: HDMI app.
>> HYNDMAN: Or only to another monitor like
on presentations on Google AEO device does
not HDMI or any other video connectors.
>> BUTCHER: In [INDISTINCT]
>> HYNDMAN: Google AEO, we use HDMI app.
>> There's also DLNA.
DLNA.
You can also use it.
>> HYNDMAN: Well, if you want video content,
I think, it doesn't necessarily mirror the
device [INDISTINCT]
>> BUTCHER: DLNA doesn't do mirroring, they
wouldn't show the live screen, it would just
be able to show like a specific content of
a file or something.
>> HYNDMAN: Other good things...
>> BUTCHER: Okay.
>> HYNDMAN: ...of the new hardware-accelerated
emulators, I've made a video using one of
those quite recently.
>> BUTCHER: Uh-hmm.
>> HYNDMAN: And it came out very well.
>> BUTCHER: It's true.
>> HYNDMAN: Good.
Good.
You know, you can watch video, you can watch
YouTube in there and the video frame rate
is good.
So, the hardware-accelerated emulators with
images provided by Intel.
>> All right.
>> HYNDMAN: And GPU acceleration, very good.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
I'd say, you either need HDMI app or...
>> HYNDMAN: The HDMI app is the way to go.
>> BUTCHER: ...emulator is your best.
Yeah.
>> HYNDMAN: And it's going to be the fastest,
most responsible with the highest resolutions.
>> BUTCHER: Using like BlueStacks maybe, even
on your PC.
I really have tried that.
>> SUTTON: BlueStacks runs in a Window, so
probably it would have the same problems as,
say, using the emulator or using a VirtualBox.
>> BUTCHER: What do you mean the same problems?
>> SUTTON: Recording from a window, unless
you've got an application that will do that
well and give you a good quality output.
You...
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
But--yes.
It's got like desktop screen recording.
There's tons of stuff where apps will do that
for you, right?
>> SUTTON: I'm not sure.
I have not come across any ones that I'm a
hundred percent happy with, but I think if
you looked...
>> HYNDMAN: I just want to [INDISTINCT] haven't
use one on that.
>> BUTCHER: So, the remedy is when we did
that scrolling tricks with the sticky scrolling
and stuff, just desktop recorder [INDISTINCT]
>> SUTTON: Oh, cool.
I'll give it a shot again.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
The hardware emulator--I mean hardware-accelerated
emulator, it certainly makes the emulator
much more perform--and useful for this kind
of thing.
But yeah, the best bet you're going to get
is--well, one of my favorite tricks is using
a real device with the show touches turn on,
which can create really good quality videos.
>> HYNDMAN: Show touches.
Good tip.
To finish it off, Paul asks, is anyone would
to join from London in late October?
>> Wait.
One--can I--one more thing?
Sorry.
>> HYNDMAN: Oh, go ahead.
>> I'm sorry.
I heard in news app called AppGeek that Google
released a template for building apps.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
>> But I've not seen it anywhere and like
I've searched Google.
>> BUTCHER: It's in your ADT.
>> What?
>> HYNDMAN: Your Android Developer Tools inside
Eclipse plug-in.
>> Oh.
>> HYNDMAN: See that new project in there,
it's a template.
It's not being point to IntelliJ at this point.
So, yeah.
>> BUTCHER: That's in ADT.
>> I'm a software engineer but I only work
with computers.
I only started working with Android now but
currently my app looks like C, it doesn't
look anything like Java.
I don't use threads and stuff like that.
It simply looks like C++.
So...
>> HYNDMAN: Are you using Eclipse to write
it?
>> ...I want it to be an app that's created--huh?
>> HYNDMAN: Are you using Eclipse to write
it?
>> Using a what?
>> HYNDMAN: Eclipse.
>> Eclipse.
Yes.
Of course.
>> HYNDMAN: Yeah.
It's in Eclipse in the Development Tools.
You can just do trial...
>> Yeah, I know.
I've downloaded the--some of your sample apps
but the spaceship one and the snake...
>> HYNDMAN: Uh-hmm.
>> ...like
>> HYNDMAN: Oh, they've been C++.
>> These are just the only ones I have access
to.
Are there anything newer?
I need to update something, doesn't do automatically.
>> BUTCHER: What are you writing, a game or...
>> I'm making--I'm currently making a game.
Yes.
>> BUTCHER: You could look at--if you Google
for--what's Chris' game called again?
>> GAUNT: Wind-up Knight?
>> HYNDMAN: No.
>> BUTCHER: No.
No.
It's got like a source code.
>> HYNDMAN: The Replica Island.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, Replica Island.
Thanks.
>> GAUNT: Yeah.
>> How?
Replica Island?
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
This is a former teammate of ours who open-sourced
a game written--it's all written in Java and...
>> Yeah.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah, and so on.
So that's--that will help you bootstrap because
[INDISTINCT] your game loop and all that stuff.
They'll be some good codes to copy.
Again, a little bit dated but it's...
>> I've already made several games but they
all use--I use one class to make like a loop.
>> BUTCHER: Uh-hmm.
>> HYNDMAN: Uh-hmm.
>> And the rest of it looked just like the
main in C, so it just repeats that one, so
all the threadings and all the advance stuff
are not available for me, so it looks like
this.
>> BUTCHER: Yeah.
It definitely improves that Replica Island
source code.
It will give you a lot of ways to handle inputs
and, you know...
>> Yes.
>> BUTCHER: ...something on the device, so
[INDISTINCT]
>> Thank you.
>> HYNDMAN: Thank you.
Thank you all very much for joining us on
this week's Android Developer Office Hours,
EMEA Edition.
We'll catch you all next Wednesday.
>> SUTTON: Thanks, guys.
>> HYNDMAN: Tablets.
>> BUTCHER: Bye, everyone.
>> BUTCHER: Tablets.
Tablets.